How to Host a Proper High Tea.
Technically, high tea in the U.K. includes
cooked meats and salad.
But in the U.S., it has become synonymous
with an afternoon of sweet treats and delicate
sandwiches.
You will need A cloth tablecloth Cloth napkins
Silverware Teacups, saucers, and small plates
A selection of loose-leaf tea Teapots Tea
infusers Scones and pastries Finger sandwiches
Platters or tiered serving trays Tongs Jam
and clotted cream A tea kettle A tea strainer
Milk, lemon, and sugar and creme fraiche.
Step 1.
Invite guests to come by between 3 and 5 p.m.
Afternoon tea is meant to tide people over
from lunch to dinner.
Step 2.
Put out a cloth tablecloth, cloth napkins,
and your best utensils.
Provide each guest with a teacup and saucer,
and a small plate.
Give each guest two spoons: one for their
tea and one for their clotted cream and jam.
Step 3.
Offer a variety of loose-leaf teas; tea bags
are a no-no.
Either limit your selection to the number
of teapots you have, or provide each guest
with a tea infuser that allows them to steep
tea in their own cups.
Step 4.
Prepare a menu that includes small scones,
miniature pastries, like petits fours, and
finger sandwiches – egg or chicken salad,
cucumber, watercress, and smoked salmon with
cream cheese are all traditional fillings.
Cut them into quarters, and remove the crusts.
Step 5.
Place the sweets and sandwiches on separate
platters or tiered serving trays and allow
guests to serve themselves with tongs.
Place pots of jam and clotted cream on the
table for the scones.
If you can't find clotted cream in your market,
substitute creme fraiche.
Step 6.
Put the loose tea into the empty teapots.
A good general rule is one teaspoon for every
cup of water.
Step 7.
Just before the water boils, add it to the
teapots.
Cover and let steep for two to four minutes.
Stir the leaves lightly a couple of times
while they're brewing.
The tea will brew more evenly this way.
Step 8.
Place a tea strainer across each teacup before
pouring to catch the tea leaves.
Offer guests sugar, lemon, or milk – but
not cream.
Step 9.
Sit back, relax, and linger over good conversation.
High tea is meant to be savored.
Did you know The tradition of afternoon tea
was conceived in the 1800s by Anna Maria,
the duchess of Bedford, who complained she
got hungry between lunch and dinner.